---
title: "TimelyFL: Heterogeneity-aware Asynchronous Federated Learning with Adaptive Partial Training"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/2023-03-31-TimelyFL
excerpt:
date: 2023-03-31
venue: 'CVPR 2023 (FedVision)'
paperurl:
citation: 
---
In cross-device Federated Learning (FL) environments, scaling synchronous FL methods is challenging as stragglers hinder the training process. Moreover, the availability of each client to join the training is highly variable over time due to system heterogeneities and intermittent connectivity. Recent asynchronous FL methods (e.g., FedBuff Nguyen et al. (2021)) have been proposed to overcome these issues by allowing slower users to continue their work on local training based on stale models and to contribute to aggregation when ready. However, we show empirically that this method can lead to a substantial drop in training accuracy as well as a slower convergence rate. The primary reason is that fast-speed devices contribute to many more rounds of aggregation while others join more intermittently or not at all, and with stale model updates. To overcome this barrier, we propose TimelyFL, a heterogeneity-aware asynchronous FL framework with adaptive partial training. During the training, TimelyFL adjusts the local training workload based on the real-time resource capabilities of each client, aiming to allow more available clients to join in the global update without staleness. We demonstrate the performance benefits of TimelyFL by conducting extensive experiments on various datasets (e.g., CIFAR-10, Google Speech, and Reddit) and models (e.g., ResNet20, VGG11, and ALBERT). We also validate the feasibility of TimelyFL by deploying it on an Android-based mobile device testbed. In comparison with the state-of-the-art (i.e., FedBuff), our evaluations reveal that TimelyFL improves participation rate by 21.13%, harvests 1.28× - 2.89× more efficiency on convergence rate, and provides a 6.25% increment on test accuracy.